 By Edith Ike-Eboh Mr Abubakar Buba,  Controller Abuja  Operations, Department of Petroleum  Resources (DPR) said  the operations  had   shutdown 22 illegal  Liquefied  Petroleum Gas (LPG)  also known as cooking  gas outlets in the Federal  Capital Territory (FCT). Buba while addressing newsmen after the clamp down of Illegal LPG outlets exercise  on Tuesday said  that it was part of the operations effort to ensure safety and total compliance to the policy. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Some of the locations visited  were Gwarinpa Estate, Wuse Zone one, Kubwa among others He said that about four teams went out to different parts of the FCT to shut down illegal outlets, filling stations and arrest the operators. “Today we have been able to raid about 22 unlicensed LPG skids and retailers shops in Abuja. We are able to close in about 26 retail outlets that is filling station that are unlicensed, they are illegal. “ With partnership with the Nigeria Securities and Civil Defense (NSCDC), we are able to arrest  about 22 illegal retailers  that were sitting their shops at the wrong places  like green areas, source of ignition, some are located where people are smoking, which is very unacceptable,’’ he said . According to him, the operation will continue to enforce the policy to ensure that people do the right things. He said that apart from licensed skids at the various filling stations, FCT had 35 standard legal gas plants scatters in various locations to serve residents.  He advised Nigerians to stop patronizing the roadside seller but should go to approved LPG plants situated in many areas in Abuja to refill their gas cylinders. “They should not patronize any road side seller by allowing them to decant (transferring from one cylinder to another), it is not acceptable and it is not good. “We advise that Nigerian to exchange their cylinders instead of decanting,’’ he added. He advised LPG marketers and retailers who were yet to get license to approach DPR office and obtain license or regularize their papers to operate. He assured that the DPR would continue to be commitment to ensure operators were duly licensed. “This exercise is not to take anybody out of business but we want them to do their business legally,’’ he added. Commenting on some operators arrested, he  said that they  would be handed over to the NSCDC for prosecution. Mr Felix Ikwuegbu, NSCDC Deputy Commandant of Corps FCT said the NSCDC  was always available to work with the DPR  to  weed out illegal operators of LPG in the country. “Like we have done in the past, we help DPR to effect arrest, all the suspects; we make sure they are arraigned before the federal high court. “So Far, all the arrest in the past, we are waiting for the cases to be assigned to the court for arraignment that is where we are at the moment “These ones that are arrested today, we will also ensure that they are taken to court and prosecuted,’’ he added. He solicited information from the public for easy services adding that the security and safety of FCT residents remained paramount to the NSCDC “We are looking at the safe and implication of illegal gas operations, we are not resting on our oars to make sure we sanitise FCT in that regard,’’ he added Some of the gas sellers who spoke to NAN said that there were doing legitimate business and that it was unfair for DPR to stampede them and arrest them as criminals. Mr Rowland Nwodo, Chairman of group in Wuse zone one said that they  got approval from the FCT Environmental  Agency and the Standard Organisation of Nigeria  (SON) and even DPR to operate. “ Apart from selling gas, we also supply hospital with oxygen, Most times; people call us to bring gas to them at homes in times of emergency. “We have put everything the authorities asked us to put in place like fire extinguisher, the Fire Service came here yesterday and they checked the extinguishers and identified some that needed to be serviced. “They have carried all of those ones to service for us. We have the giants extinguishes all over here,’’ he said. NAN reports  that there were  presence of roadside food vendors cooking close to the gas outlets. In his remarks Mr Chris Ikeliani, owner of Meri Gas Limited said that LPG business requires very serious regulation and the DPR must ensure adherence to policies by operators. “There is no doubt that you need the DPR to ensure that every  retail point must be well regulated  so that it doesn’t cause inflammation all over the place “Recently, you know that there is a lot of fire from gas outlets that are not well located, some are located in very small places, inside shops and a little spark is disastrous. “So, because of that, we need to handle it very well and carefully,’’ he said. Ikeliani advised that people should take designate properties for gas plant in various locations to build a plant for safety measures. He noted that to established a standard gas plant could cost between N250 and N300 million. (NAN)