Gov. Udom Emmanuel has made a case for a special U.S. Visa waiver for Nigerian business people with genuine business dealings in the U.S. The governor said that considering various collaborations between United States and Nigeria, especially Akwa Ibom state, this appeal would not be unusual since most people from the state have genuine business transactions in the United States. He made this appeal while hosting the Deputy Chief of Missions of the United States Embassy, Nigeria, Ms.Kathleen FitzGibbon and the Deputy Chief of Missions of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) Ms. Katie Donohoe at his country home in Akwa Ibom. The Governor sued for more transparent and collaborative processes between international donor agencies and the  Akwa Ibom State Government in the budgeting and implementation of health awareness and sensitization campaigns in the state. He said the active partnership with relevant state government agencies would ensure accountability and forestall duplication of efforts and unnecessary waste of resources with minimal results. The Governor described as huge, the amount said to have been expended in the state during the past ten years on the HIV/AIDS campaigns by USAID. While thanking the U.S. Embassy for their contributions towards the fight in keeping the state safe against various diseases, he pledged the state Government’s support in undertaking enlightenment campaigns to reduce HIV related stigma and provision of other resources including rapid test kits. Earlier, the Deputy Chief of Missions U. S Embassy, Kathleen FitzGibbon stated that the visit was to inform the Government of the assistance given by the United States of America in the fight against HIV/AIDS. She also solicited for more support from the Government to ensure that the state has zero tolerance for stigmatisation of people living with the virus thus ensuring greater access to quality anti-retroviral drugs that would sustain life and also prevent the spread of the disease. She also emphasized the need for the state to enact the anti-stigma law to reduce HIV related stigma in the state and hinted on the mega PCR Laboratory provided for the state by USAID which required Medical Lab Scientists from the state for effective services. She used the occasion of the visit to condole with the Governor and family over the demise of their father and prayed for the eternal repose of the soul of Late Elder Gabriel Nkanang.