By Emmanuel Afonne Dr Augustine Igbuku, Chairman, Merosa Academy Apo, Abuja has assured that the school would constantly use sports as a means of engaging its pupils mind and students to keep them away from evil. Igbuku gave the assurance at the 3rd Inter House Sports competition of the school which saw the pupils and students vie for honours in 21 different sports under four house masters. He said sporting activities usually took away the attention of youths from evil even in developed countries and as such were adopted by the school to help in moulding and shaping of the students character. “Our vision is to set the pace for others to follow. Education is not just about academics, it also involves sports and we are delighted that our pupils and students recognize sports as fundamental part of their education skill. “Sports is not just about the competition, it also promotes team work, coordination and brain expansion. So, our cardinal objective is to ensure they recognise the value of team work. “The world today is significantly depended on how much coordination, energy and synergy that people can have, so, we want to use this to promote collaboration among teams and students as well. “As you know the English Premier League (EPL) is one of the attractive football leagues in the world and the UK promotes it because it takes away the attention of the youths from evil things. “If as a country we are able to promote positive sports activism, it will engage a lot of the youths who are idle and for us we are in support of the president’s agenda of promoting sports in schools. “That is why we are making extra efforts not only to promote sports in our school but to encourage by all means those who have shown sign of competence in their area of strength,” Igbuku said. Game Master of the school, Augustine Ubaka, pointed out that many of the students had developed interest in sports because of the attention given to sporting activities and inter-house sports competition in the school. According to Ubaka, this year’s inter-house sports competition is unique because of the interest shown in sports by the students and the teachers. “Presently, many of the pupils and students are picking interest in sports after we showed them the rules and how to play it. “Some of them come to us before this year’s inter-house sports competition to say sir I want to do long jump; we realised that it is something we can do after you taught us the rules. “And I discovered that they have really picked interest not only in one sport, but in other sports because they were given opportunity to find out what they could do.” The competition saw Saturn House emerge as overall winners with 61 points consisting of six gold, three silver and five bronze, while Venus House finished as runners up with 60 points comprising of five gold, six silver and two bronze. Defending champions Jupiter House were beaten to third place after their competitors garnered 59 points of five gold, four silver and three bronze medals. Miss Favour Nwafor of Venus House, who won gold in Shot Put and a silver in golf, said she was working to be a professional lady golfer by the time she graduates from the University. (NAN)