By Tolu Aiyegbusi The Centre for Satellite Technology Development (CSTD) says it is committed to actualising the service delivery initiative of the Federal Government. The Director/CEO of CSTD, Prof. Spencer Onuh, gave the assurance while delivering a speech at the inauguration of Service Compact (SERVICOM) Unit at the centre on Friday in Abuja. He said the centre was committed to complying with the delivery of effective services as agreed by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) and directed by the FG. He stated that all public establishments had been directed by the FG to set up a SERVICOM centre. “The FG has directed all public establishments to set up SERVICOM centre so that services that are delivered to the public are excellent, of good quality and timely,’’ he said. Onuh stated that the centre was in collaboration with specialised institution in other to deliver on its mandated, adding that setting up a SERVICOM centre was one of such. According to him, “the inauguration of the SERVICOM centre will help us in efficient delivery of our mandate and bridging the gap in effective communication between the centre and its customers’’. He added that service delivery had been at the heart of the centre but the inauguration of the SERVICOM centre would awaken a consciousness. “ The inauguration of SERVICOM centre will help us to discharge our duties effectively, timely, meet up with required specifications and be accountable,’’ he said. In her keynote address, the National Coordinator of SERVICOM, Mrs Nnenna Akajemeli, said public service delivery was very important to the citizens of any country. Akajemeli, who was represented by Mrs Ngozi Akinbodewa, the SERVICOM team leader in charge of Federal Ministry of Science and Technology (FMST), said government activities were managed through SERVICOM. “The major function of public service is to provide services, provide enabling environment for economic growth and prosperity for citizens as well as securing and strengthening democratic institutions. “SERVICOM has the responsibility of ensuring that Nigerians are effectively and efficiently served,’’ she said. She said SERVICOM was present at the CSTD and in other organisations to ensure Nigerian citizens were served rights. According to her, there is high standard of service to be given to every citizen and SERVICOM ensures that the standard is met. “In SERVICOM, a standard charter is required from every organisation and we ensure this is strictly adhered to. “The service charter is a promissory document detailing the quality of services to be rendered to the office, the standards and timeline set for such services,’’ she said. She said the essence of inaugurating a SERVICOM committee for CSTD was to also ensure that inadequate services could also be reported. She urged the centre to set up a service charter which could be reviewed from time to time to keep abreast of innovations in space technology. “I want to urge the centre to set up a service charter, a reception area and for the focal head of the committee to have the opportunity of reporting directly to the Director of the centre,’’ she said. Ibitoye Olusola, the SERVICOM’s Focal Head in CSTD, said her commitment to better public service was renewed. Olusola noted that over the years, there had been poor service delivery by the public sector in Nigeria and SERVICOM had helped in changing the narrative. “The induction and inauguration have helped equip me and my team to improve on our mindsets towards citizen satisfaction. “By promoting excellence in Public Service, we are helping the FG to achieve its mandate,’’ she said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that members of the CSTD SERVICOM Committee inaugurated included the focal officer/head, customer service front desk officer, innovative officer, charter desk officer amongst others. (NAN)